When training a neural network, one of
the techniques that will speed up your
training is if you normalize your inputs.
Let's see what that means.
Let's see if a training sets
with two input features.
So the input features x
are two dimensional, and
here's a scatter plot
of your training set.
Normalizing your inputs
corresponds to two steps.
The first is to subtract out or
to zero out the mean.
So you set mu = 1 over M sum over I of Xi.
So this is a vector, and then X gets set
as X- mu for every training example,
so this means you just move
the training set until it has 0 mean.
And then the second step is
to normalize the variances.
So notice here that the feature X1 has
a much larger variance than the feature
X2 here.
So what we do is set sigma = 1 over m
sum of Xi**2.
I guess this is a element y squaring.
And so now sigma squared is a vector with
the variances of each of the features,
and notice we've already
subtracted out the mean, so
Xi squared,
element y squared is just the variances.
And you take each example and
divide it by this vector sigma squared.
And so in pictures, you end up with this.
Where now the variance of X1 and
X2 are both equal to one.
And one tip, if you use this to scale your
training data, then use the same mu and
sigma squared to normalize your test set,
right?
In particular, you don't want to
normalize the training set and
the test set differently.
Whatever this value is and whatever
this value is, use them in these two
formulas so that you scale your test set
in exactly the same way, rather than
estimating mu and sigma squared separately
on your training set and test set.
Because you want your data,
both training and test examples,
to go through the same transformation
defined by the same mu and
sigma squared calculated
on your training data.
So, why do we do this?
Why do we want to normalize
the input features?
Recall that a cost function is
defined as written on the top right.
It turns out that if you use unnormalized
input features, it's more likely
that your cost function will look like
this, it's a very squished out bowl, very
elongated cost function, where the minimum
you're trying to find is maybe over there.
But if your features are on very different
scales, say the feature X1 ranges
from 1 to 1,000, and
the feature X2 ranges from 0 to 1,
then it turns out that the ratio or
the range of values for
the parameters w1 and w2 will end
up taking on very different values.
And so maybe these axes should be w1 and
w2, but I'll plot w and b,
then your cost function can be
a very elongated bowl like that.
So if you part the contours
of this function,
you can have a very elongated
function like that.
Whereas if you normalize the features,
then your cost function will on
average look more symmetric.
And if you're running gradient descent
on the cost function like the one on
the left, then you might have to use a
very small learning rate because if you're
here that gradient descent might need
a lot of steps to oscillate back and
forth before it finally finds
its way to the minimum.
Whereas if you have a more spherical
contours, then wherever you start
gradient descent can pretty much
go straight to the minimum.
You can take much larger steps with
gradient descent rather than needing to
oscillate around like like
the picture on the left.
Of course in practice w is
a high-dimensional vector, and so
trying to plot this in 2D doesn't
convey all the intuitions correctly.
But the rough intuition that your
cost function will be more round and
easier to optimize when your
features are all on similar scales.
Not from one to 1000, zero to one, but
mostly from minus one to one or
of about similar variances of each other.
That just makes your cost function
J easier and faster to optimize.
In practice if one feature, say X1,
ranges from zero to one, and
X2 ranges from minus one to one,
and X3 ranges from one to two,
these are fairly similar ranges,
so this will work just fine.
It's when they're on dramatically
different ranges like
ones from 1 to a 1000, and
the another from 0 to 1, that that really
hurts your authorization algorithm.
But by just setting all of them to a 0
mean and say, variance 1, like we did in
the last slide, that just guarantees that
all your features on a similar scale and
will usually help your
learning algorithm run faster.
So, if your input features came
from very different scales,
maybe some features are from 0 to 1,
some from 1 to 1,000, then it's
important to normalize your features.
If your features came in on similar
scales, then this step is less important.
Although performing this type of
normalization pretty much never does any
harm, so I'll often do it anyway
if I'm not sure whether or
not it will help with speeding
up training for your algebra.
So that's it for
normalizing your input features.
Next, let's keep talking about ways to
speed up the training of your new network.